readme.md, before:


# Syllabus Checklist

- [ ] How to create a new Laravel project?
- [ ] How to create a page?
- [ ] How to create a route?
- [ ] How to create a controller?
- [ ] How to create a view?
- [ ] How to create users from tinker?
- [ ] How to read a record?
- [ ] How to read records?
- [ ] How to create pagination?
- [ ] How to create a form?
- [ ] How to validate form using Request?
- [ ] How to validate form in Controller?
- [ ] How to insert a new record?
- [ ] How to update a record?
- [ ] How to create method spoofing?
- [ ] How to get error messages from validators?

# How to create a page

## Route

Set Route - `routes/web.php`

```php
Route::get('about-us','PageController@aboutUs')
```

## Controller

Create a controller - `php artisan make:controller PageController --resource` - and create a method `aboutUs` returning view from `pages.index`.

```php
public function aboutUs()
{
	return view('pages.index');
}
```

## View

Create the view - create new folder in `resources/views/` named `pages`. In `pages`, create `aboutUs.blade.php`. Add the following content:

```html
@extends('layouts.app')

@section('content')
<div class="container">
    <div class="row">
		<h1>About Us</h1>
    </div>
</div>
@endsection
```

# How to create a list of users using Artisan

Run `php artisan tinker`.

Then run `factory(\App\User::class, 100)->create();`. This will create 100 users.

# How to call PUT and DELETE from Ajax

You need to method spoofing when calling `PUT` and `DELETE` method in Laravel since HTTP call does not capture other that `GET` and `POST`. Following are the sample code when you need to call a `PUT` or `DELETE` URI using Ajax.

```javascript
function confirmDelete(id)
{
	if(confirm('Are you sure'))
	{
		var data = {
			_token : window.Laravel.csrfToken,
			_method : 'delete'
		}
		$.post('/users/' + id, data, function(data, textStatus, xhr) {
			// do something
		});
	}
}
```

# How to create a validator

Create custom request by running `php artisan make:request UserRequest`.

Open `UserRequest.php` located at `app/Http/Requests`.

Add validation rules for your form at `rules()` method:

```php
return [
    'name' => 'required|min:6|max:255',
    'email' => 'required|email|max:255|unique:users',
    'password' => 'required|min:6|confirmed',
];
```

Next, include `UserRequest` namespace in `UserController` - `use App\Http\Requests\UserRequest;`. 

Now in `UserController`'s `store(Request $request)` method, replace `store(Request $request)` with `store(UserRequest $request)`.

## To display error message

Following are the sample to display an error message

```html
@if ($errors->has('email'))
    <span class="help-block">
        <strong>{{ $errors->first('email') }}</strong>
    </span>
@endif
```

## Authorization

You may return to `true` in `UserRequest`'s `authorize()` method if there's no particular authorization required.

```php
public function authorize()
{
    return true;
}
```

## Validation from within Controller

```php
$this->validate($request, [
    'name' => 'required|min:6|max:255',
    'password' => 'required|min:6|confirmed',
]);
```

# How to create a model and migration script together?

Just run following command:

```php
php artisan make:model Post -m
```

This will create a model named `Post.php` in `app` folder and a migration script `timestamp_create_posts_table.php` in `database\migrations` folder.

Read more about [Creating Columns](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/migrations#creating-columns)

After done adding columns, run `php artisan migrate` to run the migration script and have your tables in database.

# How to create model factory

Open up `database\factories\ModelFactory.php` and copy the user's factory and update as following:

```php
$factory->define(App\Post::class, function (Faker\Generator $faker) {
    
    return [
        'title' => $faker->sentence,
        'description' => $faker->text
    ];
});
```

# How to create seeder file and seed the data

Create a seeder file using following command:

```php
php artisan make:seeder PostTableSeeder
```

Open `PostTableSeeder.php` located at `database\seeds` folder and call the factory for `Post`, as following in `run` method:

```php
factory(\App\Post::class, 100)->create();
```

# How to call seeder file

Open up `database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php` and call the `PostTableSeeder` as following:

```php
public function run()
{
    $this->call(PostTableSeeder::class);
}
```

# How to seed data

Run `php artisan db:seed`

Commit message:

update readme on model factory and seed

readme.md, after:


# Syllabus Checklist

- [ ] How to create a new Laravel project?
- [ ] How to create a page?
- [ ] How to create a route?
- [ ] How to create a controller?
- [ ] How to create a view?
- [ ] How to create users from tinker?
- [ ] How to read a record?
- [ ] How to read records?
- [ ] How to create pagination?
- [ ] How to create a form?
- [ ] How to validate form using Request?
- [ ] How to validate form in Controller?
- [ ] How to insert a new record?
- [ ] How to update a record?
- [ ] How to create method spoofing?
- [ ] How to get error messages from validators?
- [ ] How to create a model and migration script together?
- [ ] How to create a model factory?
- [ ] How to create seeder file?
- [ ] How to call model factory in seeder file?
- [ ] How to call seeder file in `DatabaseSeeder.php`?
- [ ] How to seed data?

# How to create a page

## Route

Set Route - `routes/web.php`

```php
Route::get('about-us','PageController@aboutUs')
```

## Controller

Create a controller - `php artisan make:controller PageController --resource` - and create a method `aboutUs` returning view from `pages.index`.

```php
public function aboutUs()
{
	return view('pages.index');
}
```

## View

Create the view - create new folder in `resources/views/` named `pages`. In `pages`, create `aboutUs.blade.php`. Add the following content:

```html
@extends('layouts.app')

@section('content')
<div class="container">
    <div class="row">
		<h1>About Us</h1>
    </div>
</div>
@endsection
```

# How to create a list of users using Artisan

Run `php artisan tinker`.

Then run `factory(\App\User::class, 100)->create();`. This will create 100 users.

# How to call PUT and DELETE from Ajax

You need to method spoofing when calling `PUT` and `DELETE` method in Laravel since HTTP call does not capture other that `GET` and `POST`. Following are the sample code when you need to call a `PUT` or `DELETE` URI using Ajax.

```javascript
function confirmDelete(id)
{
	if(confirm('Are you sure'))
	{
		var data = {
			_token : window.Laravel.csrfToken,
			_method : 'delete'
		}
		$.post('/users/' + id, data, function(data, textStatus, xhr) {
			// do something
		});
	}
}
```

# How to create a validator

Create custom request by running `php artisan make:request UserRequest`.

Open `UserRequest.php` located at `app/Http/Requests`.

Add validation rules for your form at `rules()` method:

```php
return [
    'name' => 'required|min:6|max:255',
    'email' => 'required|email|max:255|unique:users',
    'password' => 'required|min:6|confirmed',
];
```

Next, include `UserRequest` namespace in `UserController` - `use App\Http\Requests\UserRequest;`. 

Now in `UserController`'s `store(Request $request)` method, replace `store(Request $request)` with `store(UserRequest $request)`.

## To display error message

Following are the sample to display an error message

```html
@if ($errors->has('email'))
    <span class="help-block">
        <strong>{{ $errors->first('email') }}</strong>
    </span>
@endif
```

## Authorization

You may return to `true` in `UserRequest`'s `authorize()` method if there's no particular authorization required.

```php
public function authorize()
{
    return true;
}
```

## Validation from within Controller

```php
$this->validate($request, [
    'name' => 'required|min:6|max:255',
    'password' => 'required|min:6|confirmed',
]);
```

# How to create a model and migration script together?

Just run following command:

```php
php artisan make:model Post -m
```

This will create a model named `Post.php` in `app` folder and a migration script `timestamp_create_posts_table.php` in `database\migrations` folder.

Read more about [Creating Columns](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/migrations#creating-columns)

After done adding columns, run `php artisan migrate` to run the migration script and have your tables in database.

# How to create model factory

Open up `database\factories\ModelFactory.php` and copy the user's factory and update as following:

```php
$factory->define(App\Post::class, function (Faker\Generator $faker) {
    
    return [
        'title' => $faker->sentence,
        'description' => $faker->text
    ];
});
```

# How to create seeder file and seed the data

Create a seeder file using following command:

```php
php artisan make:seeder PostTableSeeder
```

Open `PostTableSeeder.php` located at `database\seeds` folder and call the factory for `Post`, as following in `run` method:

```php
factory(\App\Post::class, 100)->create();
```

# How to call seeder file

Open up `database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php` and call the `PostTableSeeder` as following:

```php
public function run()
{
    $this->call(PostTableSeeder::class);
}
```

# How to seed data

Run `php artisan db:seed`
